[Music]
get ready for things you want to know
this underwater creature has bbis a
toothy jaw and is oftentimes the main
attraction in some scary movies
sharks but what are they fish or
superheroes if you guess both then
you're right
sharks are one of the oldest living
organisms on planet Earth like all fish
they swim in water and can be found in
every ocean on earth sharks are often
seen as the super villain of the sea but
they're better cast as superheroes
because sharks have super powers they
have the power of night vision sharks
can spot their prey in dim and dark
Waters combine this with a strong sense
of smell and the ability to pinpoint
their prey sometimes hundreds of feet
away
sharks also get a bad rap the truth is
you are more likely to get injured by a
toilet than attacked by a shark
but the odds of either of those things
happening is unlikely
when it comes to feasting sharks are
clever and well equipped with speed
agility and strength
sharks have different techniques for
capturing food like the basking shark
that holds its mouth open like a
drawbridge and inhales as much as a
thousand pounds of fish food in its
stomach every day harmful just thinking
about that
sharks eating habits may seem extreme
but they actually help to keep fish
populations strong
sharks use their superpowers to protect
and help keep the ocean healthy
sharks are the superheroes of the sea
[Music]
get ready for things you want to know
I scream you scream we all scream for
well you know the rest
the first kind of ice cream invented was
in China over 2 000 years ago along with
some other early inventions like paper
money tea and the compass
are sweet and sticky History tour starts
with an Explorer named Marco Polo who
carried a recipe from his travels in
China to Italy
it closely resembled what we know as
sherbert
[Music]
however this tempting treat didn't
spread from Europe to the new world
until the late 18th century and ice
cream became a summer favorite
fast forward to today in places like
Japan you can find unique flavors of ice
cream like octopus shrimp soybean and
kelp well Japan isn't the only place
with crazy flavored ice cream in England
there's a restaurant that serves ice
cream flavors like crabs and sardines on
toast
there are hundreds of weird and
wonderful ice cream flavors all over the
world
for ice cream lovers one to two scoops
is not enough
ask Dimitri panchiera from Italy who's
known for balancing 121 ice cream scoops
on one single cone or head to the
country that consumes more ice cream per
person than any other Australia
these awesome ice cream flavors are no
fun without its funnel-shaped package
while the recipe isn't as ancient as the
ice cream the ice cream cone has been
around for over a century they're
durable and environmentally friendly if
you order your ice cream with a cone
instead of in a cup there's no waste you
eat every delicious bite I know all this
talk about ice cream must be making your
mouth water
so go grab a scoop for two or even three
but be careful not to eat it too fast
though
you might get a brain freeze
get ready for things you want to know
have you ever been on a road trip how
about a three-day road trip that's about
how long it takes to get to the moon
three American astronauts began their
road trip to the moon on July 16 1969
Neil Armstrong Michael Collins and Edwin
Buzz Aldrin
blasted off in the Apollo 11 spacecraft
from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida
on a mission that would change the world
forever
back on Earth
600 million people all over the globe
watched this incredible Expedition
[Music]
before touching down the trio split up
Colin stayed on board Apollo 11's
Command Module the Columbia where he
would remain in orbit around the Moon
Armstrong and Aldrin boarded the lunar
module the eagle an aircraft designed
for two astronauts to land on the moon's
surface
wearing bulky spacesuits and backpacks
of oxygen to breathe
Neil Armstrong stepped out becoming the
first person to walk on the moon
shortly after Buzz Aldrin joined his
partner launching themselves into the
history books
Armstrong and Aldrin spent about two
hours exploring and collecting samples
of the Moon to bring back to Earth
but before getting back on board they
left behind a few mementos their
backpacks an American flag a small gold
pin shaped like an olive branch and a
patch from the never launched Apollo 1
mission
all was going well until one of the
astronauts accidentally knocked loose
the circuit breaker that fires up the
engine to get them back to the orbiting
Command Module
Collins was their only ride home
but it was Buzz Aldrin who saved the day
with a pen pushing the breaker back in
place the spaceman re-entered the
Earth's atmosphere splashing down in the
middle of the Pacific Ocean marking the
first successful human operated
spacecraft to the moon and back mission
accomplished and the world celebrated
their safe return
humans set foot on the moon what planet
is next you got a bunch of guys about to
turn blue we're breathing again thanks a
lot
get ready
you want to know you probably know Simba
from The Lion King movie but did you
know that Simba means Lion in Swahili
and crowned king of the jungle because
of its power and presence found mostly
in sub-Saharan Africa Mayans have a
special sense of family and are the only
big cats that prefer to live in groups
called a pride a family unit with up to
three males a dozen females and their
young often all related with as many as
15 lions
the lionesses certainly have their paws
full as the primary Hunters of their
pride these queens and princesses like
to stick together to help make their
Royal Pride strong
stealth and strategy female lions often
work together to bring down prey
and while the Queens are out hunting for
food the kings of the Jungle are likely
taking their long daily nap male lions
spend about 18 to 20 hours a day
sleeping
when they're not sleeping they're
protecting their pride and their
territory using their powerful Roar that
they don't gain until two years of age
lions are 25 times louder than a
gas-powered lawnmower
both the kings and queens of the Jungle
play an important role in keeping their
royal family healthy and safe
so Simba his lionesses and the rest of
the pride definitely cause an uproar in
the wild
get ready for things you want to know
do you love flying through the air at
top speeds riding upside down throwing
your hands in the air and screaming at
the top of your lungs then this wild
ride is for you the roller coaster these
massive machines come in many different
sizes and speeds from China to
Pennsylvania Germany Florida the list
goes on
for centuries people have been seeking
the thrill and adventure of this extreme
experience
in the 15th century back in Russia is
when it all started people of the upper
class built giant slides made of snow to
slide down just for fun
France soon joined in on the fun in 1804
and built the first real roller coaster
with sloped tracks and carts for people
to ride
in the United States it wasn't a human
that took a ride on the first roller
coaster it was coal miners needed the
fastest way to transport coal out of the
mountain so they made a downhill track
soon after roller coasters started
popping up all over the world they got
longer
faster
and taller
you can find an 8 000 foot long roller
coaster in Japan
and over a 400 foot tall coaster in New
Jersey USA
roller coasters are built with safety
and physics in mind the faster the
roller coaster the more secure you are
in your seat
so head out to your closest amusement
park jump in a roller coaster and buckle
up for a zero gravity experience
[Music]
get ready or thing you want to know
what creature has pointy teeth is most
active at night and sleeps hanging
upside down baths
sometimes mistaken for shape-shifting
bloodsuckers or vampires but only three
species of bats feed solely on blood
while other species feed on insects
fruit and fish that's unique taste buds
aren't the only thing that makes them
special they also have distinctive
prints on their wings like human
fingerprints there's no mistaking one
bat from another there are over 1 300
species of bats found around the globe
more incredibly one of them is named the
world's smallest mammal the bumblebee
bat bats are the only flying mammal on
earth and did you know that these furry
Flyers are also pollinators they help
Supply us with some of our favorite
foods like bananas avocados and mangoes
birds bees and butterflies pollinate
plants during the day then bats and
moths take over the night shift most
bats are nocturnal foraging for insects
like mosquitoes beetles and moths
they're like a nighttime Pest Control a
common bat can eat over 3 000 tiny bugs
in one single night and during the day
they seek shelter to rest caves are the
perfect habitat because they have high
ceilings to keep them out of reach from
most predators
some caves can have colonies of up to 20
million bats
gigantic crowd doesn't stop fat moms
from finding their pups using their
unique voices and scents moms can easily
locate their babies like humans bats
have voice recognition even more amazing
bats navigate by echolocation which
basically means they can see using sound
hopefully this has busted some myths and
fears you may have had about that
instead we should celebrate them for
their natural pest control and
pollinating powers
[Music]
get ready for things you want to know
this four-legged friend comes in a
variety of colors and coat lengths has
long whiskers and sometimes mischievous
motives does this sound like your pet my
guess is it's a cat humans and domestic
cats have developed close relationships
over many years
[Music]
the history of house cats dates back
twelve thousand years ago in the Middle
East
today there are now 500 million domestic
cats in the world making cats one of the
most popular pets over time these
lovable felines have made cat lovers
believe they're truly out of this world
and literally they've made a leap for
mankind with the first cat blasting off
into outer space in 1963. cats amazing
feats don't just stop there tauser the
Mouser the famous Mouse Champion caught
almost 30 000 mice in her lifetime
there's even a statue dedicated to her
in Scotland these cute companions share
a special bond with their human friends
so much that cats think of us as bigger
versions of themselves unlike dogs who
immediately change their behavior when
they see us cats tend to treat people
like their fellow felines propping their
tails up rubbing against our legs and
lying beside us these cuddle buddies
favorite Pastime is sleeping cats can
sleep up to 20 hours a day resting so
much that a nine-year-old cat would have
been awake for only three years of its
life talk about beauty sleep these cute
catnappers may sleep their days away but
they always make time to show their
human friends just how lovable and loyal
they are
[Music]
foreign
things you want to know what to
cold-blooded creatures have scaly skin
are top predators
and live on every continent except
Antarctica and Europe need a couple more
hints they're both reptiles with 23
different species in the world and they
both often suffer from a case of
mistaken identity give up their
alligators and crocodiles these two may
have some obvious similarities but their
differences are a little harder to spot
especially since Gators and crops are
close relatives here are a few different
characteristics to help you tell them
apart they're snouts crocodiles are
larger in size and have a more pointed
v-shaped snout while alligators are
smaller and have a wider u-shaped sound
since we're talking about their massive
mouths what about their teeth Crocs
flash a toothy grin even when their
mouths are shut but Gators sometimes
keep their lower Chompers hidden and an
even easier and safer way to tell them
apart from a distance
is their skin color
Gators are darker gray or black and
Crocs are olive green or tan and last
but not least they differ in their big
bad attitudes crocodiles are much more
aggressive than alligators a Crocs bite
force is almost the same as a great
white shark
now that's an animal you don't want to
cross
these two giant reptiles may not be
exactly alike but they both are powerful
Predators so it's best not to meet up
with either one in the wild but if you
do take a look and get out of there
quick
[Music]
get ready
for things you want to know do you know
which two reptiles come from the
squamata family I know you're like
what's that
it's the largest group of reptiles of
class of animals that are known for
their scaly skin think you know which
too let me give you a few hints they can
slither away from trouble stay hidden
using camouflage warm up by sunbathing
and they're even growing in popularity
as pets
they're snakes and lizards they may be
different but they also have a lot in
common
we all know that snakes don't have arms
or legs but did you know that some
lizards are legless and Slither around
just like snakes pretty cool right some
of these wild creatures have the ability
to hide in plain sight
in fact chameleons can blend into most
of their backgrounds
it's just a myth that they can mimic any
surrounding but with the help of special
pigments In Their Skin these
color-converting lizards can make
themselves harder to spot
snakes have camouflaging skill too and
they use it to hide from potential
predators
but when the sun's out they don't hide
away for too long because they're drawn
to it and not just to warm up
many lizards have a hole between their
eyes kind of like a third eye that
allows sunlight to reach their brains
this helps them keep track of the change
of seasons
pretty incredible right snakes and
lizards are squiggly sometimes slimy and
even Sly but it's their unique skills
that make them really fantastic
get ready for things you want to know
check this out
did you know that there are over 300
different types of monkeys on Earth
from the world's smallest monkey the
pygmy marmoset weighing as little as
four ounces to the world's largest
monkey the Mandrill weighing as much as
77 pounds
and it's not just the size of their
bodies that make monkeys so unique
take the proboscis monkey for example
known for its extra long nose
or the spider monkey with extremely long
Limbs and a tail
some monkeys have prehensile tails I'm
sure you're like what's that it's
another limb that acts just like an arm
which makes it easy for them to glide
through the jungle
it's also the easiest way to tell
monkeys and apes apart
sometimes they can be confusing
monkeys have tails and apes don't even
though they're both members of the
primate family and family is everything
to monkeys their social structure is how
they Thrive monkey troops work together
to find food care for their young and
protect one another
but they also socialize through sound
like gelatas who communicate with
complex vocal sounds and lips mats
and
who are so loud they can be heard up to
three miles away
[Music]
monkeys are pretty awesome they have big
personalities and the life of the party
wherever they go
[Music]